README.md, before:

# Weather Application

A Python command-line application that provides comprehensive weather information using the NOAA Weather API and US Census Geocoder API.

## Features

- **Current Weather Conditions**: Get detailed current weather including temperature, wind, and forecast
- **Extended Forecast**: View 7-day weather forecast
- **Hourly Forecast**: See detailed hourly weather predictions
- **Nearby Stations**: Get weather data from up to 4 nearest weather stations
- **Active Alerts**: View any active weather alerts for the location
- **Address History**: Maintains a list of previously searched addresses
- **Google Maps Integration**: Provides Google Maps links for locations
- **Unit Conversions**: Automatically converts between metric and imperial units
- **Airport Weather**: Get weather data for a specific airport
- **File loading**: Load and save address history to a file; load airport codes from a file 

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Required packages (see requirements.txt)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sharkymark/weather.git
   cd weather
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Usage

Run the application:
```bash
python weather.py
```

Follow the on-screen prompts to:
1. Enter an address or select from previous addresses
   1. View current weather conditions
   2. Choose from additional options:
      - Detailed conditions
      - Extended forecast
      - Hourly forecast
      - Nearby station weather
      - Active alerts
      - Change location
      - Return to main menu
2. Get airport weather data
3. Exit the application


## API Keys

This application uses:
- US Census Geocoder API (no key required)
- NOAA Weather API (no key required)

## File Structure

```
weather/
├── weather.py          # Main application code
├── README.md           # This documentation
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
├── .gitignore          # Git ignore file
└── addresses.txt       # Stores previously searched addresses
└── airports.txt        # Stores airport codes for nearby stations
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or pull request.

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

feat: download airport code dataset and get weather for 5 random

README.md, after:

# Weather Application

A Python command-line application that provides comprehensive weather information using the NOAA Weather API and US Census Geocoder API.

## Features

- **Address Lookup**: Enter an address to get weather data
   - **Current Weather Conditions**: Get detailed current weather including temperature, wind, and forecast
   - **Extended Forecast**: View 7-day weather forecast
   - **Hourly Forecast**: See detailed hourly weather predictions
   - **Nearby Stations**: Get weather data from up to 4 nearest weather stations
   - **Active Alerts**: View any active weather alerts for the location
   - **Address History**: Maintains a list of previously searched addresses
   - **Google Maps Integration**: Provides Google Maps links for locations
   - **Unit Conversions**: Automatically converts between metric and imperial units
   - **Airport Weather**: Get weather data for a specific airport
   - **File loading**: Load and save address history to a file
- **Airport Weather Lookup**
   - **Load airport codes from a file**
   - **Get weather data for a specific airports marked with T boolean in file** 
- **Airport List Download and Random Weather Lookup**
   - **Download airport codes from a [GitHub repository](https://davidmegginson.github.io/ourairports-data/airports.csv)**
   - **Create random list of 5 airport codes**
   - **Get weather data for a specific airports marked with T boolean in file** 

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- Required packages (see requirements.txt)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/sharkymark/weather.git
   cd weather
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   python3 -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Usage

Run the application:
```bash
python weather.py
```

Follow the on-screen prompts to:
1. Enter an address or select from previous addresses
   1. View current weather conditions
   2. Choose from additional options:
      - Detailed conditions
      - Extended forecast
      - Hourly forecast
      - Nearby station weather
      - Active alerts
      - Change location
      - Return to main menu
2. Get airport weather data from file
3. Download airport codes and get weather data for random airports
4. Exit the application


## API Keys

This application uses:
- US Census Geocoder API (no key required)
- NOAA Weather API (no key required)

## File Structure

```
weather/
├── weather.py          # Main application code
├── README.md           # This documentation
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
├── .gitignore          # Git ignore file
└── addresses.txt       # Stores previously searched addresses
└── airports.txt        # Stores airport codes for nearby stations
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or pull request.

## License

MIT License
